docs/opendata/user_guide/ug_opendata_interface.md, before:


| [![Republic of Estonia Information System Authority](../../img/ria_100_en.png)](https://www.ria.ee/en/) [![X-ROAD](../../img/xroad_100_en.png)](https://www.ria.ee/en/x-road.html) | ![European Union / European Regional Development Fund / Investing in your future](../../img/eu_rdf_100_en.png "Documents that are tagged with EU/SF logos must keep the logos until 1.11.2022. If it has not stated otherwise in the documentation. If new documentation is created  using EU/SF resources the logos must be tagged appropriately so that the deadline for logos could be found.") |
| :-------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------: |

# X-Road v6 monitor project - Open Data Interface User Guide

The project maintains X-Road v6 log of service calls (queries), published as opendata.

Data is collected from Estonian X-Road members security servers available by X-Road Center (Republic of Estonia Information System Authority, Riigi Infosüsteemi Amet, RIA) according to [Operational Monitoring Protocol] (https://github.com/ria-ee/X-Road/tree/develop/doc/OperationalMonitoring).

Data is renewed nightly, between 0:00-6:00 (EET UTC+2h / EEST UTC+3h). Data since current day -10 days is available for public.

Logs are anonymized, ie sensitive fields are removed, incl:

- monitoringDataTs - The Unix timestamp in seconds when the record was received by the monitoring daemon
- securityServerInternalIp - Internal IP address of the security server
- messageUserId - Personal code of the client that initiated the request
- messageIssue - Client's internal identifier of a file or document related to the service

Timestamps in logs are rounded off as hours and presented in form of Unix timstamp (epoch time).

Additional calculations from timestamps available are made:

- requestInDate - human-readable date presentation of timestamp requestInTs
- producerDurationProducerView - when available, then calculated as substraction 'Producer responseOutTs (6)' - 'Producer requestInTs (3)'
- totalDuration - when available, then calculated as substraction 'Client responseOutTs (8)' - 'Client requestInTs (1)'


## Initial page

After navigating to `http://logs.x-road.ee/{ee-dev,ee-test,EE}/gui`, we should see the following page:

![Initial Interface page](../../img/opendata/1_interface_initial_screen.png "Initial Interface page")

## Date constraint

Click on the **Date** section and it should show 

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/2_interface_datetimepicker.png "Interface datetimepicker")

The dataset is available from the moment it was available by X-Road members and collected by RIA for ecosystem monitoring purposes. Those dates are selectable.

After selecting date (sample: September 19, 2017) and clicking on the green "Preview" button, we should see both of the entries from the day:

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/3_interface_sept_19_preview.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

## Column constraints

When we change the date to (sample: September 20, 2017) and select "id", "messageid", and "totalDuration"

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/4_interface_20_sept_col_subset_1.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")
 
after clicking "Preview" again, we should see
 
![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/4_interface_20_sept_col_subset_2.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

## Value and order constraints

When ignoring entries with "None" value and requesting only entries with "id" greater than 10 and ordering by ascending "totalDuration"

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/5_interface_20_sept_constraints_1.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

we should see:

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/5_interface_20_sept_constraints_2.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

## Downloading

When clicking on "Download" instead of "Preview", the browser should initiate a "2017-09-20@download_timestamp.tar.gz" file download. The contents should look similar to

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/6_interface_download_content.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

Commit message:

Opendata Interface User Guide explanation and img about timestamps

docs/opendata/user_guide/ug_opendata_interface.md, after:


| [![Republic of Estonia Information System Authority](../../img/ria_100_en.png)](https://www.ria.ee/en/) [![X-ROAD](../../img/xroad_100_en.png)](https://www.ria.ee/en/x-road.html) | ![European Union / European Regional Development Fund / Investing in your future](../../img/eu_rdf_100_en.png "Documents that are tagged with EU/SF logos must keep the logos until 1.11.2022. If it has not stated otherwise in the documentation. If new documentation is created  using EU/SF resources the logos must be tagged appropriately so that the deadline for logos could be found.") |
| :-------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------: |

# X-Road v6 monitor project - Open Data Interface User Guide

The project maintains X-Road v6 log of service calls (queries), published as opendata.

X-Road [monitoring data](https://github.com/ria-ee/X-Road/tree/develop/doc/OperationalMonitoring) is collected from Estonian X-Road members security servers available 
by X-Road Center (Republic of Estonia Information System Authority, Riigi Infosüsteemi Amet, RIA) 
and published as opendata with a delay of 10 days from actual transaction execution time.

Data is renewed nightly, between 0:00-6:00 (EET UTC+2h / EEST UTC+3h).

Logs are anonymized, ie sensitive fields are removed, incl:

- monitoringDataTs - The Unix timestamp in seconds when the record was received by the monitoring daemon
- securityServerInternalIp - Internal IP address of the security server
- messageUserId - Personal code of the client that initiated the request
- messageIssue - Client's internal identifier of a file or document related to the service

Timestamps (specifically *requestInTs*) are rounded to hour precision and presented in form of Unix timstamp (epoch time).

Additional calculations from timestamps available are made:

- requestInDate - human-readable date presentation of timestamp requestInTs
- producerDurationProducerView - when available, then calculated as substraction 'Producer responseOutTs (6)' - 'Producer requestInTs (3)'
- totalDuration - when available, then calculated as substraction 'Client responseOutTs (8)' - 'Client requestInTs (1)'

Explanation of timestamps (1) - (8):
![Timestamps](../../img/opendata/0_timestamps.png "Timestamps")


## Initial page

After navigating to `http://logs.x-road.ee/{ee-dev,ee-test,EE}/gui`, we should see the following page:

![Initial Interface page](../../img/opendata/1_interface_initial_screen.png "Initial Interface page")

## Date constraint

Click on the **Date** section and it should show 

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/2_interface_datetimepicker.png "Interface datetimepicker")

The dataset is available from the moment it was available by X-Road members and collected by RIA for ecosystem monitoring purposes. Those dates are selectable.

After selecting date (sample: September 19, 2017) and clicking on the green "Preview" button, we should see both of the entries from the day:

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/3_interface_sept_19_preview.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

## Column constraints

When we change the date to (sample: September 20, 2017) and select "id", "messageid", and "totalDuration"

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/4_interface_20_sept_col_subset_1.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")
 
after clicking "Preview" again, we should see
 
![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/4_interface_20_sept_col_subset_2.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

## Value and order constraints

When ignoring entries with "None" value and requesting only entries with "id" greater than 10 and ordering by ascending "totalDuration"

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/5_interface_20_sept_constraints_1.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

we should see:

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/5_interface_20_sept_constraints_2.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")

## Downloading

When clicking on "Download" instead of "Preview", the browser should initiate a "2017-09-20@download_timestamp.tar.gz" file download. The contents should look similar to

![Interface datetimepicker](../../img/opendata/6_interface_download_content.png
 "Interface datetimepicker")
